
A key part of bank regulation is to make sure that firms operating in the
industry are prudently managed.
-
The aim is to protect the firms themselves, their customers, the government
(which is liable for the cost of deposit insurance in the event of a bank
failure) and the economy, by establishing rules to make sure that these
institutions hold enough capital to ensure continuation of a safe and efficient
market and are able to withstand any foreseeable problems.


Objectives: {
  - prudential—to reduce the level of risk to which bank creditors are exposed
    (i.e. to protect depositors)
  - systemic risk reduction—to reduce the risk of disruption resulting from
    adverse trading conditions for banks causing multiple or major bank
    failures[4]
  - to avoid misuse of banks—to reduce the risk of banks being used for
    criminal purposes, e.g. laundering the proceeds of crime
  - to protect banking confidentiality
  - credit allocation—to direct credit to favored sectors
  - it may also include rules about treating customers fairly and having
    corporate social responsibility.

}

Components {

  Bank regulation is a complex process and generally consists of two components:
    - licensing (sets certain requirements for starting a new bank., and
    - supervision ( an extension of the licence-granting process and consists of supervision of the bank's activities by a government regulatory body)

}
{ Instruments and requirements

  { Capital requirements

    aka: regulatory capital, capital adequacy or capital base

    Capital requirements is the amount of capital a bank or other financial
    institution has to have as required by its financial regulator.

    The capital requirement sets a framework on how banks must handle their
       capital
    in relation to their
      assets. 

    Capital requirements should not be confused with reserve requirements
   (which govern the assets side of a bank's balance sheet—in particular, the
   proportion of its assets it must hold in cash or highly-liquid assets.)

  }
  { Economic capital

    Economic capital can be thought of as the capital level bank shareholders
    would choose in the absence of capital regulation

    Economic capital (ecap) is the amount of risk capital, assessed on a
    realistic basis, which a firm requires to cover the risks that it is
    running or collecting as a going concern, such as market risk, credit risk,
    legal risk, and operational risk.

    It is the amount of money that is needed to secure survival in a worst-case
    scenario. Firms and financial services regulators should then aim to hold
    risk capital of an amount equal at least to economic capital.



  }
  { Reserve requirements

    The reserve requirement sets the minimum reserves each bank must hold to demand deposits and banknotes. 

    This type of regulation has lost the role it once had, as the emphasis has
    moved toward capital adequacy, and in many countries there is no minimum
    reserve ratio.


  }
  { Corporate govenance

    Corporate governance requirements are intended to encourage the bank to be
    well managed, and is an indirect way of achieving other objectives

  }
  { Financial reporting and disclosure requirements

    Among the most important regulations that are placed on banking institutions is the requirement for disclosure of the bank's finances.

    In the US for example the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires
    management to prepare annual financial statements according to a financial
    reporting standard, 

    The Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 outlines in detail the exact structure of the reports that the SEC requires.

  }
  { Credit rating requirement

    Banks may be required to obtain and maintain a current credit rating from an approved credit rating agency, and to disclose it to investors and prospective investors. 
    
  }
  { Large exposures restrictions

    Banks may be restricted from having imprudently large exposures to individual counterparties or groups of connected counterparties

  }

}
