Basel Comittee on banking Supervsion = BCBS

objective:
   - enhance understanding of key supervisory issues and
   - improve the quality of banking supervision worldwide. 


The committee provides a forum for regular cooperation on banking supervisory matters. 
-
The committee's Secretariat is located at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in Basel.
(BIS and the Basel Committee remain two distinct entities.)



1974: established by the central bank governors of the Group of Ten (G10) countries (+ Luxembourg and Spain)
1988: Publication of the *Basel Capital Accords* (= Basel I?)
2009: Expansion of membership (all of the other G-20 major economies are represented, as well as some other major banking locales such as Hong Kong and Singapore.)
2014: 2nd(?) expansion of membership
2019: 45 members from 28 jurisdictions, consisting of central banks and authorities with responsibility of banking regulation.[3]


{ Basel Accords

  The Basel Accords refer to the banking supervision accords (recommendations on banking regulations) issued by BCBS.

  { 1988: Basel I -  Basel Capital Accord

    Covers capital requirements for credit risk. The Accord was enforced by law in the Group of Ten (G-10) countries in 1992.

    The Basel Accord was augmented in 1996 with a framework for market risk,
    which included both a standardised approach and a modelled approach, the
    latter based on value at risk.[1]

  }
  { Basel II

    Published in 2004, Basel II was a new capital framework to supersede the
    Basel I framework. It introduced "three pillars":
     - Minimum capital requirements, which sought to develop and expand the
       standardised rules set out in the 1988 Accord;
     - Supervisory review of an institution's capital adequacy and internal
       assessment process;
     - Effective use of disclosure as a lever to strengthen market discipline
       and encourage sound banking practices.

    Capital requirements for operational risk were introduced for the first time.

  }
  { Basel IA

    Basel IA was proposed as an intermediate between the then current Basel I accord and the Basel II accord, which was being implemented at the time.

    On July 20, 2007 by a deal between the various US banking regulators (The
    Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office
    of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) it was
    decided to drop the proposed Basel IA and allow Basel II Standardised in
    its place.

  }
  { Basel III (2010/2011)

    Following the financial crisis of 2007–2008, the Basel III reforms were published in 2010/11. 

    The standards set
      - new definitions of capital,
      - higher capital ratio requirements, and
      - a leverage ratio requirement as a "back stop" measure.

    Risk-based capital requirements (RWAs) for CVA risk and interest rate risk
    in the banking book were introduced for the first time, along with a large
    exposures framework, a revised securitisation framework, 
    and a standardised approach to counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) to measure
    exposure to derivative transactions. A specific framework for exposures to
    central counterparty clearing was introduced.



  }
  { Basel 3.1 / Basel IV

    The new standards that come into effect in January 2023, that is, the FRTB
    and Basel 3.1, are sometimes referred to as Basel IV. However, the
    secretary general of the Basel Committee said, in a 2016 speech, that he
    did not believe the changes are substantial enough to warrant that title
    and the Basel Committee refer to only three Basel Accords

  }

}
